# NeuroConnectivity
ImageJ/Fiji macro set to quantify neuronal connectivity in images of iPSC derived- and primary neuronal cultures. This macro is derived from an Acapella® (PerkinElmer) script (https://github.com/VerschuurenM/NeuronalConnectivity). Cultures are immunochemically labeled for a nuclear marker, dendrite marker and a pre- and postsynaptic marker. After maximum projection of acquired z-stacks, nuclei are detected using a manually assigned threshold or by applying the trained convolution neural network Stardist. Neurites are identified using a rough (user-defined threshold) and fine (user-defined threshold after tubeness filtering) segmentation, which is a simplified version of MorphoNeuroNet. Next, the nuclei mask is subtracted from the neurite mask after which the neurite mask is dilated to obtain a search region in which the pre- and postsynaptic spots are detected. The spots are first enhanced using a gaussian, Laplacian or multi-scale Laplacian filter with a user-defined kernel size. Next, a user-defined threshold is applied to segment the spots. The resolution of the microscope setup does not allow determining the exact location of individual markers within a synapse, but this is not the intention of the assay. Instead, the lower resolution is exploited to define synapses as those objects that demonstrate an overlap of minimum 1 pixel between the pre- and postsynaptic spots. In addition to this object-based colocalization, the Pearson correlation of the pre- and postsynaptic channel is calculated in the search region as an intensity-based colocalization metric.

### Citation
Please cite these papers if you are using this script in your research:
* Verschuuren M, Verstraelen P, Garcia-Diaz Barriga G, Cilissen I, Coninx E, Verslegers M, Larsen PH, Nuydens R, De Vos WH. High-throughput microscopy exposes a pharmacological window in which dual leucine zipper kinase inhibition preserves neuronal network connectivity. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2019 Jun 4;7(1):93. doi: 10.1186/s40478-019-0741-3. Erratum in: Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2019 Aug 14;7(1):131. PMID: 31164177; PMCID: PMC6549294.
* Verstraelen P, Garcia-Diaz Barriga G, Verschuuren M, Asselbergh B, Nuydens R, Larsen PH, Timmermans JP, De Vos WH. Systematic Quantification of Synapses in Primary Neuronal Culture. iScience. 2020 Sep 7;23(9):101542. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2020.101542. PMID: 33083769; PMCID: PMC7516133.
<br />
Neurite detection is based on:<br />
Pani G, De Vos WH, Samari N, de Saint-Georges L, Baatout S, Van Oostveldt P, Benotmane MA. MorphoNeuroNet: an automated method for dense neurite network analysis. Cytometry A. 2014 Feb;85(2):188-99. doi: 10.1002/cyto.a.22408. Epub 2013 Nov 12. PMID: 24222510.
<br />
<br />
If the Stardist algorithm is applied to detect nuclei, please cite: <br />
Uwe Schmidt, Martin Weigert, Coleman Broaddus, and Gene Myers. Cell Detection with Star-convex Polygons. International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention (MICCAI), Granada, Spain, September 2018.
